*** PLOT ***

Go into Eralan Inn and speak to the Prior.
 "I am Oricius, and i request someones aid to fetch the Foretelling STONES.
 "I will reward you greatly. Would you accept such a Quest?"
 Ask about STONES...
 "As far as i know, the HEAD ORC posesses them."
 Ask about HEAD ORC...
 "The HEAD ORC resides at a CAMP in the Dark Forest north of here"
 Ask about CAMP...
 "Their is a path that leads to it north of the forest Spring."
 Locate and buy them (he resides in the Hut and knows not of their value apart
 from their nice shape!)
 He will also be selling the TABLET of truth. Buy that too
Return them to prior
 The Prior will take them and give you 500 gold coins
Use them
 "Search for MIDRATH, the Assasin"
 Ask about MIDRATH...
 "Midrath lives near the Southern Mountains, in a lodge near Lankwell."
 Find his lodge, and a note will lye nearby
 Examine note to reveal...
 "I, Midrath murdered Valwyn high king of Alboreth"
 "Not wanting to face the vengeance of his Son, i have taken my own life"
 "The Medallion was sold to MADREGATH for the sum of 1000 gold coins."
 Ask about MADREGATH...
 "Madregath is the leader of the Skeleton warriors and resides in the Ruins"
 "of Agrechant."
 Use Foretelling stones again..
 "CALIBOR and SILDERON hold the next step in your journey"
 Ask about SILDERON...
 "Silderon's mouth is a fabled entrance to the underwurlde and is situated
 on the isle of Tempus"
 Ask about CALIBOR...
 "Calibor is a wealthy merchant and keeper of the Keys who lives on CRANNOTH
 "isle"
 Ask about CRANNOTH...
 "An old Alboreth Rythme tells of a Underground passage to it called
 The Mouth of EQUINOX that is only accessable with a Wooden Key"
 Ask about EQUINOX...
 "The Mouth of Equinox lyes deep in the far north-west of the Dark Forest"
 Locate Equinox and travel to Crannoth.
 Calibor will offer to sell the following items...
  1) Hat - 10,000 Gold Coins - But ability to transfer to any known place
  2) Quartz Key - 2,500 Gold Coins - Access passage to Tempus
  4) Book - 5000 Gold Coins - Select a destination, arrow will show direction
  5) Tin Clasp - 1000 Gold Coins - Used with cloak found near phnang Temple
  Buy Magicians Hat from Calibor. (He will also offer all keys but hero can
 only afford one item)
 Use Magicians hat to get to Tempus.
 Lodge at Inn
 ask Innkeeper about SILDERON...
 "CRODOR claimed the other day he had found a way in"
 Ask about Crodor...
 "CRODOR Lives in a lodge just east of Silderons Mouth"
 Locate Crodor
 Ask about SILDERON...
 "I can get you in for 500 gold coins if you want?"
 Reply yes...
 "Thankyou, now follow me..."
 will initiate the creature to travel to Silderons mouth and open the gate.
 However you must follow Crodor and protect him from the attacking creatures.
 Only his knowledge will gain access so getting him killed will prevent you
 getting into underwurlde. Once you reach Silderon and gain entrance, he will
 say...
 "Good Luck..."
 Using STONES...
 "The underworld is vast, you must find the Ring to Last"
 Once hero has Ring, the underwurlde creatures will not attack.
 Use STONES...
 "Locate the Eastern Dessert Ruins of Agrechant"
 You must then locate the eastern exit. and next to the exit (Still in the
 underwurlde), the Glass Key.
 Exit the Underwurlde then use the Magicians Hat to get to Agrechant.
 Gain entrance to second underwurlde, and get the Medallion.
 Use STONES...
 "Find the light to be shown the Light"
 On Exiting it, you will complete the game.


***



All other places are visited through sub-quests.
Esp. useful is the aquisition of artifacts to help you along the way.


Hallowed Gate


High king was murdered (whilst travelling through the wald) by Midrath, the
assassin. His Medallion was lost to a band of Skelets from the Dessert and
is thought to still reside in their posession (Ruins of Agrechant).
Midraths Note mentions being too afraid of wrath from the high kings Son(Or
Daughter, depending on chosen hero).
The

The ruins of Agrechant - Glass Key from ?



;
;
;Plot Breakdown (Posessions throughout game)
;                Pose                                                    Get
;Prior@EralanInn -                                                       Know
;Woodsman@Forest -                                                       Knife
;Head Orc@Encamp Knife                                                   Tab
;Prior@EralanInn Knf,Tab                                                 Indium
;Crodor@Lankwell Knf,Tab,Ind                                             Note
;Croders Hut     Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte                                         Chime
;Hermits Lodge   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm                                     StoneK
;Prior@EralanInn Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK                                 Cloak
;Castle of Angor Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,Clk                             WoodK
;Woodsman@Forest Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK                             Know
;Forest Castle   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK                             Cross
;Mouth o Equinox Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs                         -
;Serb'@Crannoth  Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs                         QurtzK
;Calibor@Tempus  Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK                     SilvK
;Silerons Mouth  Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK                 -
;Underwurlde#1   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK                 Medal
;Underwurlde#1   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Med             Casket
;Crator          Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Med,Csk         -
;Migram@Ganestor Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Med,Csk         GlassK
;Ruins Agrechant Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK         -
;UnderWurlde#2   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK         Ring
;Bom@GanestorInn Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK,Rng Hat
;Phnang Escarp   Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK,Rng,Hat
;Temple o Phnang Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK,Rng,Hat Book
;High King       Knf,Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK,Rng,Hat,Book!!
;
;Plot Breakdown (Posessions Required throughout game to get objects or knwledge)
;                Pose                                                    Get
;Prior@EralanInn -                                                       Know
;Woodsman@Forest -                                                       Knife
;Head Orc@Encamp -                                                       Tab
;Prior@EralanInn Tab                                                     Indium
;Crodor@Lankwell -                                                       Note
;Croders Hut     -                                                       Chime
;Hermits Lodge   Ind                                                     StoneK
;Prior@EralanInn Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm                                         Cloak
;Castle of Angor Chm                                                     WoodK
;Woodsman@Forest WdK                                                     Know
;Forest Castle   Chm                                                     Cross
;Mouth o Equinox WdK                                                     Access
;Serb'@Crannoth  Crs                                                     QurtzK
;Calibor@Tempus  -                                                       SilvK
;Silderon Mouth  StK                                                     Access
;Underwurlde#1   Crs                                                     Medal
;Underwurlde#1   Crs                                                     Casket
;Crator          SvK                                                     Access
;Mygrem@Ganestor Med                                                     GlassK
;Ruins Agrechant GlK                                                     Access
;UnderWurlde#2   Crs                                                     Ring
;Bom@GanestorInn Money                                                   Hat
;Phnang Escarp   Hat                                                     Access
;Temple o Phnang Rng                                                     Book
;High King       Tab,Ind,Nte,Chm,StK,WdK,Crs,QrK,SvK,Csk,GlK,Rng,Hat,Book!!
;
;Plot split into Quests
;(Quest division will dictate how the truth tablet responds)
;
;Quest 1 (
;The initial aim is to locate the Indium Stone of Integrity.
;Locate Prior at Eralan Inn. He will point you to the tablet of truth.
;fetch tablet and examine it, it will reveal the name(Croder) of the bounty
;hunter.
;Asking about Croder will reveal that he lives south-east of Lankwell.
;Return with tablet to the Prior and he will give you the Indium Stone.
;
;Quest 2
;Locate the bounty hunter and kill him.
;He will drop a Paper Note whilst a Chime may be found inside
;his hut.
;The Note will reveal the stone keys location (Hermits house) and the Temple
;of Angor.
;
;Quest 3
;The Note may be read (Questioning people about keywords will reveal loc)
;and will guide you to the Black Asps Old Castle of Angor. However, returning
;to the Prior and giving him the note will prompt him to give you his cloak
;(for that is all that he now posesses).
;beforehand, Enquire about Hermit, then get Stone Key from his lodge (You'll
;need the indium stone to enter).
;The Cloak will change the heroes appearance to that of any enemy faced.
;However, Friends will now change to foes until it is discarded (Dropped).
;When it is dropped, it will dissolve instantly (Taking ground form) so cannot
;be picked up again.
;
;Quest 4?
;Travel east to the castle beyond the great lakes (The cloak will change the
;appearance of the hero to whomever he or she meets and will fool the Black
;asps into believing you are one of them). Gain access to the castle using the
;Chime and pick up the Wooden key.
;
;Quest 5
;On returning to the Forest, Drop the Cloak
;Ask the woodsman about the wooden key, he will tell you that it is for the
;Mouth of Equinox, an entrance to the underwurlde in the far north west of the
;Dark Forest. by Passing through the forest , you should reach a Forest castle.
;Use the Chime to gain access and collect the White Cross. This may be used to
;defend against the ghosts in the underwurlde. Open the mouth of equinox with
;the wooden key and travel to Crannoth Island. Locate the Inn and talk to
;Serberon about The Cross.
;
;Quest 6
;He will give you the Quartz key and reveal the
;existance of the Medallion of Trust but will only mention it lyes within the
;underwurlde whose only entrance is Silderons Mouth on Tempus.
;Use the Quartz key to gain access to the southern entrance and travel to
;Tempus and it's only Inn. (Take lodgings here). Ask about Silderon
;to discover Calibor who has studied the mouth for many years.
;
;Quest 7
;Find Calibor (Lodge on north shore) and chat about White Cross.
;He will let it slip that he owns a Silver key. He cannot sell the key and
;must be killed to get it. Kill him (Which will turn all friends to foes).
;and Collect key, then locate Silderons Mouth. Open with Stone Key and gain
;access to underwurlde. Locate Medallion of Trust. The underwurlde also holds
;the Casket of Holy water. This will deter the skeletons.
;On retrieving the medallion, you will regain the trust of friends.
;Now continue through the underwurlde to the eastern exit, using the Silver key
;to open the door appearing at Crator.
;
;Quest 8
;Examining the Tablet of Truth again will reveal the journey is almost complete
;but you need to travel to Ganestor to find Migram the Wise.
;Locate Migram and Give him the Medallion of Trust. He will give you the Glass
;Key and mention the ruins of Agrechant.
;
;Quest 9
;Enquire about Agrechant and people will reveal it's location.
;Note: that the only hint here that the key is for the Sand Ruins of Agrechant
;      is that the key is Glass!
;Locate Ruins and gain access. However, all your posessions will be left
;behind in the sand. Find the Ring of Power which will reveal the final
;destination which is the Temple of Phnarg.
;Return to the Ruins and all posessions will be returned to you.
;
;Quest 10
;The only way to access the Temple of Phnarg is using the Teleport (Magicians -
;hat).
;The Temple Creatures (Orcs and Black Asps) are extremely agile and cannot
;easily be killed, but must be avoided. Gain access to the Temple with the Ring
;of Power and collect the Book of providense.
;
;Quest 11
;Examination of the book will reveal the final location, that being the castle
;south east of Rhyder across the bridge just north of the Enchanted Forest.
;Travel their to finally face the High King and restore order to Alboreth.
